Add ADAT related documentation to lib_xua (#437)
xmos/lib_xua: doc/rst/feat_adat_tx.rst

ADAT Transmit
=============

``lib_xua`` supports the development of devices with ADAT transmit functionality through the use of

> `lib_adat <https://github.com/xmos/lib_adat>`__. The XMOS ADAT transmitter runs on a single core and supports transmitting 8 channels of

Reviewer: We're just using "thread" instead of "core" now.

Author: I'm going to find and replace all references to core with thread :)

Reviewer: careful you don't catch xcore! :p

digital audio at 44.1 or 48 kHz. Higher rates are supported with a reduced number of samples via S/MUX (‘sample multiplexing’). Using S/MUX,
the ADAT transmitter can transmit four channels at 88.2 or 96 kHz (SMUX II) or two channels at 176.4 or 192 kHz (SMUX IV).

> ADAT transmitter requires a logical core to run on. Blocks of audio samples are transmitted from the ``XUA_AudioHub()`` to the ADAT transmitter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ADAT transmitter requires a thread to run on. Blocks of audio samples are transmitted from the ``XUA_AudioHub()`` to the ADAT transmitter
```

ADAT transmitter and the ``XUA_AudioHub()`` tasks run on the same tile.

The USB Audio reference applications with ADAT interface enabled in ``sw_usb_audio`` are only tested with ``ADAT_TX_USE_SHARED_BUFF`` defined.
The sample transfer sequence described in :ref:`xua_adat_tx` assumes that ``ADAT_TX_USE_SHARED_BUFF`` is defined.

Declarations
------------

The channel used for communicating between ``XUA_AudioHub`` and ADAT transmitter should be declared::

    chan c_adat_out

In order to use the ADAT transmitter with ``lib_xua`` a 1-bit port must be declared e.g::

    on stdcore[AUDIO_IO_TILE] : buffered out port:32 p_adat_tx  = PORT_ADAT_OUT;

This port should be clocked from the master-clock::

    configure_out_port_no_ready(p_adat_tx, clk_audio_mclk, 0);
    set_clock_fall_delay(clk_audio_mclk, 7);

Finally the ADAT transmitter task is run - passing in the port and channel for communication with ``XUA_AudioHub``::

    adat_tx_port(c_adat_out, p_adat_tx);

.. _xua_adat_tx:

Communication between ``XUA_AudioHub`` and the ``adat_tx_port`` task
--------------------------------------------------------------------

> The interface to the ADAT transmitter core is via a normal channel with streaming builtins (``outuint``, ``inuint``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The interface to the ADAT transmitter task is via a normal channel with streaming builtins (``outuint``, ``inuint``).
```

to ``XUA_AudioHub`` as a handshake mechanism.
On receiving this handshake, ``XUA_AudioHub`` sends the address of the next block of samples over the channel.

Note that a ``XS1_CT_END`` end token is not sent between blocks of data, leading to the channel remaining open and getting used
as a streaming channel.

``XUA_AudioHub`` only terminates the connection by sending a ``XS1_CT_END`` token when there's a sampling frequency change
that requires the ``XUA_AudioHub`` to re-communicate the master clock multiplier and
the S/MUX setting.

In case of a sampling frequency change, the ``XUA_AudioHub`` receives the pending handshake from the ADAT transmitter,
followed by sending the ``XS1_CT_END`` token indicating the end of data streaming to the ADAT task.
A fresh transmission is then started by sending the new master clock multiplier and
the S/MUX setting to the ADAT transmitter, followed by audio blocks transfer as described above.

:ref:`Communication between AudioHub and ADAT Transmitter<xua_audiohub_adat_tx>` describes the communication between ``XUA_AudioHub`` and the ADAT transmitter:

 .. _xua_audiohub_adat_tx:

 .. figure:: images/xua_audiohub_adat_tx.png
   :width: 60%

> For further details please see the documentation, application notes and examples provided for ``lib_adat``.

Reviewer: would be nice to hyperlink to lib_adat at https://www.xmos.com/file/lib_adat

It's not there yet, but will be soon!

Author: done

Enumerating as a USB Audio device
---------------------------------

When ADAT TX is enabled, the number of USB OUT channels vary depending on the sampling freq (S/MUX mode). This is
exposed to the USB host as alternative interfaces, each supporting different channel counts, for the streaming output
interface.
The number of alternative interfaces exposed depends on the ``MIN_FREQ`` and ``MAX_FREQ`` supported over the USB interface.
In the most generic case, where the device supports all sampling rates from 44.1 to 192 kHz, 3 alternative interfaces on the streaming

> output interface are exposed, supporting 16, 12 and 10 output channels respectively.

Reviewer: this is application dependent. These values are correct for some configs of the 316 board. Is there a way to make these numbers just relevant to ADAT?

Author: Instead of mentioning explicit channel counts I've included the snippen from the code where num out channels are calculated. Hope this looks okay.
![Screenshot 2024-10-23 at 13 20 36](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/eebe7c70-49f1-41e2-bfa1-202df2d68f43)
